Greetings, and welcome
to JW Broadcasting!®
This month we’ll learn
what it means to be faithful
and how to make it our way of life.
How can we remain faithful
while enduring severe tests?
Maria Fernanda, Matias,
and Esteban
each faced intense trials.
They’ll share
how they found peace and comfort.
Do you sometimes hesitate
to offer a Bible study?
This episode of “Iron Sharpens Iron”
offers practical suggestions
that will boost your confidence.
And our new music video
encourages young people to stay faithful
and on the right path in life.
This is JW Broadcasting!
Old Faithful is the name of a geyser
in Yellowstone National Park
in the United States.
The geyser was given this name
because of the relative
regularity of its eruptions.
Today, it erupts thousands of liters
or gallons of boiling water
about every 90 minutes on average.
After Old Faithful erupts,
the timing of its next eruption
can be predicted about 90 percent of the time
within a ten-minute variation.
And it’s not even the most
regular geyser in the park!
Isn’t that amazing?
It shouldn’t surprise us
that the word “faithful”
is applied to inanimate things,
since we see faithfulness
and dependability in creation.
For example, Psalm 89:37 describes the moon
“as a faithful witness in the skies”
because of its reliability.
Its appearance in the sky
follows a fixed pattern,
and it faithfully completes its orbit
around the earth
every 27.3 days.
While we admire faithfulness in creation,
we especially appreciate people who make
faithfulness their way of life.
Such individuals are reliable,
dependable, and trustworthy.
Let’s read about this quality of faithfulness
at 1 Corinthians 4:2:
“In this regard, what is expected of stewards
is that they be found faithful.”
The term “steward” can mean “house manager.”
His work could include
caring for his master’s business,
property, and other servants.
That’s a lot of responsibility!
But think of this:
A steward might have
many fine qualities and abilities.
Yet, none of them would matter
if he was irresponsible,
disloyal, and unfaithful to his master.
Faithfulness is essential
to be an effective and successful steward.
As true Christians, we must prove ourselves
faithful and trustworthy.
How does Jehovah feel about faithfulness?
The same way as King David did,
who wrote at Psalm 101:6:
“I will look
to the faithful ones of the earth,
so that they may dwell with me.”
Using a similar expression,
the prophet Jeremiah wrote the words
found at Jeremiah 5:3:
“O Jehovah, do your eyes
not look for faithfulness?”
And Psalm 37:3 encourages us
to “reside in the earth,
and act with faithfulness.”
So the theme of this month’s broadcast is
“Make Faithfulness Your Way of Life.”
We’ll examine two examples of faithfulness,
and then we’ll consider some practical ways
that we can prove ourselves faithful.
We began our discussion
by talking about the example of a geyser.
A geyser might be a fitting symbol
of the faithfulness of humans
because geysers continually erupt,
but they do so unpredictably.
So a geyser would be a poor representation
of the unchanging faithfulness
of our “faithful Creator,”
as Jehovah is described at 1 Peter 4:19.
The ever-present sun and moon
are more appropriate symbols
of the unchangeableness of his faithfulness.
In his words to the nation of Israel,
Moses stated, as found at Deuteronomy 32:4:
“The Rock, perfect is his activity,
for all his ways are justice.
A God of faithfulness who is never unjust.”
Did Jehovah prove faithful to that nation?
Of course he did.
When Moses spoke those words
to the Israelites,
they may have remembered
the time when Jehovah
had faithfully brought their forefathers
out of Egypt
and rescued them at the Red Sea.
He had faithfully preserved
millions of people alive
during the Israelites’ 40-year journey
in the wilderness.
And he had led them
to the border of the Promised Land.
Moses’ successor, Joshua,
also could testify to Jehovah’s faithfulness.
As a child growing up in Egypt,
Joshua must have
come to know of Jehovah’s promise
to give the Israelites a land of their own.
When the time came to enter that land,
Joshua was an eyewitness of how
Jehovah fought in behalf of His people.
Joshua saw
the walls of Jericho fall down flat.
He saw the sun stand still
until the Amorites could be routed.
In time,
one nation after another was defeated
because the faithful God
was fighting for Israel.
Once they defeated their enemies,
Joshua could say to the nation
what is recorded at Joshua 23:14:
“You well know with all your heart
and with all your soul
“that not one word
out of all the good promises
“that Jehovah your God has spoken
to you has failed.
“They have all come true for you.
Not one word of them has failed”
—“not one word.”
Joshua had seen that Jehovah
faithfully kept His promises.
Well, you can probably think of many other
examples of Jehovah’s faithfulness,
such as the fulfillment
of Messianic prophecies,
the fulfillment of the promise to feed
God’s people spiritually in our day
by means of “the faithful
and discreet slave,” and so on.
Jehovah sets the perfect example
for us in showing faithfulness.
The thought of making faithfulness
our way of life
can also be illustrated in the example
of the three Hebrew companions of Daniel.
When they were young,
Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah
set an excellent example of faithfulness
in what some people
may view as a small thing.
Do you remember how they were
pressured to eat unclean food?
Apparently, their faithful parents
must have instructed them
to adhere strictly to the dietary
restrictions found in the Mosaic Law.
Jehovah considered these so important
that after listing such restrictions,
he stated the words
recorded at Leviticus 11:45:
“You must be holy, because I am holy.”
The king of Babylon assigned
the three Hebrew youths and other young men
“a daily ration from [his] delicacies,”
among which were foods forbidden by the Law.
The three Hebrews could have reasoned
that the dietary restrictions
of the Mosaic Law
were not so important,
at least not when compared
to the Ten Commandments.
But no, those faithful youths were concerned
with living up to all features of God’s Law.
They determined not to pollute
themselves with such food
and requested to eat vegetables.
The matter of which tasted better
was of no concern to them
in this important decision.
Daniel asked that they be permitted
to try out this diet for ten days.
The result?
At the end of the ten days,
Jehovah blessed those young men
for their faithfulness.
They looked ‘better and healthier
than any of the other youths’!
Was the choice of food a small thing?
Not to Jehovah!
It was of serious concern to him,
and the young Hebrews
had his view of the matter.
Their faithfulness in what
may have seemed a small thing
prepared them
for a bigger trial in the future.
Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah
had already established a pattern
of making faithfulness their way of life
when King Nebuchadnezzar ordered them
to bow before an image of gold
on the plains of Dura.
In faithfulness to Jehovah, they refused.
And they made that decision despite knowing
that it would result in their being
thrown into a fiery furnace.
As we read their words to the king,
as recorded at Daniel 3:17, 18,
see if you can sense their faithfulness:
“If it must be,
“our God whom we serve is able to rescue us
“from the burning fiery furnace, O king,
“and to rescue us from your hand.
“But even if he does not,
“let it be known to you, O king,
“that we will not serve your gods
or worship the image of gold
that you have set up.”
That courageous stand resulted
in their being thrown into the furnace.
But as we know, Jehovah rescued them.
What an outstanding witness they provided
not only to the king and his court
but also to all those
who through the centuries
have read about that account
in the book of Daniel!
The three Hebrews
looked to Jehovah as their Sovereign,
and they proved themselves faithful
in both large and small matters.
Well, how can we imitate Jehovah
and the three Hebrews
so that we too can make
faithfulness our way of life?
Jesus’ statement recorded
at Luke 16:10 can help.
He said:
“The person faithful in what is least
is faithful also in much.”
Those words uttered almost 2,000 years ago
are still as true as ever.
Now, it may be that you’ll never be asked
to take a stand that demonstrates
what some might view
as outstanding faithfulness,
as was shown by the three Hebrews
when they didn’t bow down to the image.
But your constancy in doing what is right
and your reliability and dependability
in small things
give evidence of your deep appreciation
for what it means to be faithful.
Psalm 31:23 assures us
that “Jehovah protects the faithful,”
and this is true even when
we’re faithful in seemingly small matters.
There are many areas of our lives
in which we need
to display faithfulness to Jehovah
—for example, having a regular share
in the ministry each month
and reporting our participation.
Faithfulness to our marriage mate
is very important to Jehovah.
How about showing our faithfulness
by staying neutral
with regard to the political
and social conflicts of the world?
Do we make faithfulness our way of life
when it comes
to our personal conduct each day?
During a personal study session
or family worship,
why not consider how you can continue
to be faithful in these areas?
And what about you young ones?
We’re so proud of you when you prove
your faithfulness to Jehovah.
We know that many of you
face tests of your faith
that involve the pressure
to engage in immorality
and in other forms of bad behavior.
It’s one thing to know what to do
or what choice you should make
but quite another to have the courage
to do what is right
when you’re under pressure or temptation.
The three Hebrews could have concluded
that they could get away with eating
the food God’s Law prohibited,
since they were far away
from their parents and friends.
They could also have reasoned
that it was the king’s order,
so they had no choice
but to do what they were told.
Besides, other youths may have
readily accepted the food arrangements
and viewed it as a privilege.
But the Hebrew youths knew that,
as mentioned at Proverbs 15:3:
“The eyes of Jehovah are everywhere.”
Those youths
were determined to remain faithful.
Young ones,
if you learn to deal successfully with trials
that some may view as small things,
then you’ll be able to face
bigger tests of your faith.
Never forget
that the benefits of faithfulness
far outweigh any temporary relief
that comes from compromising.
Let’s consider one more area
that involves faithfulness:
our dress and grooming.
How glad we were to learn
in the 2024 Governing Body Update #2
of the adjustments to our standard of dress
at theocratic events and in the ministry!
We commend you brothers and sisters
for wanting to dress and be groomed
in a dignified way on those occasions.
But how can we show our faithfulness
in our selection of clothing
during our leisure time, when on vacation,
or when at social gatherings
with our fellow Christians?
First Timothy 2:9, 10
admonishes our Christian sisters
to “adorn themselves in appropriate dress,
“with modesty and soundness of mind, . . .
in the way that is proper
for women professing devotion to God.”
Of course, the principle of modesty
applies to Christian brothers too.
Also, 2 Corinthians 6:3, 4 states
that “in no way are we giving
any cause for stumbling,
“so that no fault
may be found with our ministry;
“but in every way we recommend ourselves
as God’s ministers.”
“In every way” includes
our choice of dress and grooming.
An article entitled
“Are You Faithful in All Things?”
in the July 15, 2005,
issue of The Watchtower  states this:
“Our dress needs
to be practical and presentable.
“This serves as a witness to others
who observe us. . . .
“In fact, we should always
be appropriately attired.
“To some,
faithfulness in the choice of clothing
“may seem to be a small matter,
but in God’s eyes it is important.”
We should remember this when it comes
to our choice of dress and grooming.
Well, what will you remember
from this consideration?
Most of us admire faithfulness in creation.
However, we especially appreciate people
who have made faithfulness their way of life.
We have outstanding examples of faithfulness
recorded in the Bible that we can imitate,
such as Jehovah,
the three Hebrews, and many others.
The principle found at Luke 16:10
can help us to be faithful
not only in large matters
but also in what some may regard
as small matters.
Brothers and sisters, we encourage you
to continue to prove
your faithfulness to Jehovah.
As noted at Proverbs 28:20:
“A faithful man will receive many blessings.”
Of course,
our main reason for being faithful is,
not because of what we get out of it,
but because of our love for Jehovah.
And we can be sure that Jehovah
will continue to bless us richly
if we make faithfulness our way of life.
Jesus displayed unmatched faithfulness
through all that he suffered.
In our first segment,
notice how his words and example
helped Maria Fernanda,
Matias, and Esteban
during their darkest moments.
We were spending the afternoon
in the pool with my family.
The next day,
I woke up
and I was having trouble catching my breath.
So we went to the doctor.
A blood test revealed
that I had a bacterial infection in my leg
called staphylococcus.
I ended up in the hospital for 55 days.
I had a colonoscopy,
and a few days later,
they told me I had colon cancer.
They ran some more tests
and discovered
it had also spread to my liver.
He was a very humble person, caring.
Yes.
He loved Jehovah very much.
He was a good companion and a great friend.
We were married for almost 25 years.
Honestly, I don’t know why,
but
he decided to take his own life.
I never thought
that he would choose
to do something like that.
I think a word
that’s even more terrifying than cancer
is metastasis.
It was like being caught up in a whirlwind
and then plummeting to the ground.
My life as I knew it
had now completely changed.
In total, there were ten operations.
The first four were the most difficult
because there was a possibility
that they would have to amputate my leg.
Every morning,
you wake up with an intense anxiety,
like a weight on your chest,
and you can’t breathe.
At first, I thought
that Jehovah was just letting all this happen
and that he wasn’t doing anything.
If Jesus himself
did not expect Jehovah
to shield him from trials
or to get him out of them,
then I had no right to think,
‘Why is this happening to me?’
Actually,
the correct thinking is the opposite,
‘Why shouldn’t it also be me?’
One day,
the doctors came in with some papers
saying that the judge had given them
permission to operate on me
and give me a blood transfusion
that very day.
Because I was still a minor at the time,
I found that my opinion and my decisions
were being ignored.
So at that moment,
I realized that all of this wasn’t against me
but against Jehovah.
It became clear to me
that everything was in his hands.
I see Jehovah’s hand
through my brothers and sisters
who are always looking out for me.
We decided
to speak openly about it with others,
but especially with our close friends.
We wanted to tell them
even before they asked.
One scripture
that others often shared with me
says that Jehovah is “a protector of widows.”
That was a constant reminder
that Jehovah was going to take care of me,
and he did.
It was three months of chemotherapy
and then the operation.
They told us
the operation could last ten hours.
One thing I remember thinking was,
‘Well, when I open my eyes,
‘I will either see the ceiling
of the operating room
or I’ll see the new world.’
When our family faced economic hardships,
my mom made fruit jams to sell.
So I said,
“Well, I guess I need to do the same.”
A sister who had a business
offered to sell them for me.
This helped me so much
because I am not naturally gifted
at doing sales.
While reviewing the legal order,
it turned out that it contained an error.
My last name is Canal,
and they added an S  to it.
So they weren’t able to use the document
that ordered the transfusion that day.
With time, I began to recover,
and I started feeling reassured by the fact
that I had not been judging Jehovah
by asking where he was.
Asking that question
was a sign that I needed his help.
Whenever anything worries me, I tell myself,
‘Wait, Jehovah has always cared for you,
so he’s not going to stop now.’
I have full confidence
that Jehovah will take care of me.
My physical health is now the best it can be.
And my spiritual condition with Jehovah
—my friendship with him—
has been greatly strengthened.
We’ve definitely experienced more good things
than bad things.
It’s not that we would want
to go through it all again
—absolutely not.
But the reality is that in hindsight
with everything I learned about Jehovah,
I don’t know
that I would have learned these things
had I not gone through a situation like this.
If you’re facing a hardship or trial,
remember you’re not alone.
Never hesitate to ask for help.
You too can count on
Jehovah’s loving support
to endure and remain faithful.
Jehovah’s love moves us
to help others come to know him.
Offering a Bible study
is one of the best ways to do this.
Sometimes, though,
we may feel unsure or uncomfortable.
In this episode of “Iron Sharpens Iron,”
we’ll learn how to offer
a Bible study with confidence.
Hello, I am Byungchul Lim.
Welcome to “Iron Sharpens Iron.”
Have you ever had this experience?
You share the truth with someone,
and you can see that it touches their heart.
It’s the best feeling, isn’t it?
And it makes you want to take the initiative
to offer them a Bible study.
After all, we love God and people.
But at times
we may hesitate to offer a study.
We might worry about seeming pushy
or being rejected.
So, what can we do
to effectively offer a Bible study?
Hi, you’re out for exercise again today.
You’re really diligent.
I’ve got to do
at least this much to stay healthy.
But hey, look at this news.
I said so a few months ago, didn’t I?
Why is the world such a mess?
True.
But don’t you think
the world will get better someday?
Hmm.
What do you think?
Can the world’s problems be solved
by people’s efforts?
If anything, it’ll get worse.
What can people do?
Well, if people are powerless,
do you think there is another way?
Another way?
Hmm, doesn’t seem likely.
Our brother did an excellent job!
He showed personal interest,
was a good listener,
and asked appropriate questions.
But can you guess what he did next?
He offered a brief, silent prayer
to Jehovah for help.
When offering a Bible study,
prayer is the first step.
Even if the fear of rejection
makes you hesitate,
if you pray for courage,
as Philippians 2:13 tells us to do,
Jehovah will give you
“both the desire and the power to act”
and will bless your efforts.
So even if you feel hesitant
to speak up, don’t give up.
Pause, pray,
and turn your thoughts into actions.
Actually, the Bible
tells us about the solution.
Here, let me show you.
“Under God’s Kingdom
‘Peace Will Abound.’”
God’s Kingdom
—sounds like a possible solution.
But now I’ve got a lot of questions.
Right.
I had a lot of questions too,
but I found the answers
by studying the Bible.
It’s the best way, really.
Studying the Bible?
Yes.
Some people might think a Bible study
involves attending classes
with many others or taking exams.
How can we avoid this misunderstanding?
This is the second step:
Demonstrate how a Bible study is conducted.
Showing them this video
from the Teaching Toolbox in  JW Library®
not only answers frequently asked questions
about Bible studies
but is also one of the best ways
to help them want to study the Bible.
You also studied the Bible like this?
Yes, I really enjoyed studying the Bible.
The video said the future becomes brighter
if you study the Bible.
So how does it become brighter?
Like this.
Enjoy Life Forever!
You can watch the video together
and then show them the back cover
of the Enjoy Life Forever!  brochure.
If they respond positively,
you can build their anticipation
by moving on to the third step.
This involves finding out
what they are interested in.
To do this, show them page 15
of the brochure
and ask them to choose a topic
that interests them.
This one: “How to find real peace.”
Yes, peace is really important.
Then how about we explore this topic together
for our first Bible study?
Sounds good.
What time works for you?
The brother did an excellent job
of starting a Bible study!
So let us review.
To offer a Bible study,
there are three steps.
The first is prayer.
You might feel hesitant
about offering a Bible study,
but Jehovah can give you
“both the desire and the power” to do so.
The second is to demonstrate
how a Bible study is conducted.
We have effective tools
that help us to do this.
For example, you can use the
What Happens at a Bible Study?  video
and the Enjoy Life Forever!  brochure.
The third is to find out
the other person’s interests.
Use page 15 of the brochure
to find out which topics interest them.
But remember that more important
than any method or technique
is showing genuine love
for God and people,
just as Jesus did.
This will no doubt help you
to achieve your goal of making disciples.
After what we’ve explored together today,
I feel motivated to go out
and start a Bible study.
I hope you also feel the same way.
What practical suggestions!
Let’s look for ways to apply them
in our daily interactions with people.
When we stay alert in our conversations,
we’ll find opportunities
to offer Bible studies.
More than ever, people urgently need
to learn about Jehovah
and his purpose for mankind.
The knowledge they gain
can truly transform their lives,
as we’ll see in the story
of Moses Maphoto.
One night, the police came into our home.
They kicked open the doors,
and they broke the windows.
They told us that they were taking the house,
that it was no longer ours.
After that incident,
I became an angry person.
I was angry,
and I told myself that I would do anything
to find justice and freedom.
Apartheid caused divisions among people.
For example,
there was education meant for white people
and education meant for black people.
The education for black people
was of a very low standard.
When the government made a budget,
most of that money was going to white people.
Even in the classrooms,
the black students’ classrooms were overcrowded
compared to the white students’ classrooms.
While I was growing up,
I was determined to become a lawyer
so that I would be able
to fight apartheid legally.
After that cruel incident
and that harsh treatment,
my view changed immediately.
And I wanted an immediate solution
that would help us find peace,
find freedom, and find justice.
I went on to join a political organization.
I agreed to cross the border,
where I was being trained in the military.
The political organization
made me a military commander of soldiers
who were fighting for freedom.
My responsibility
as a commander
was to establish cells
where we could store our weapons for war
and to train others
who came to join that organization.
We were training them in guerrilla warfare
—showing them how to use guns
or different explosives
that we stored in those cells.
I was a very cruel person
who did not respect anyone,
who was not afraid of anything.
I was not happy
because I expected that
as one organization,
we would be united
because we had the same purpose.
In my experience, there was hatred;
there was prejudice;
there was quarreling.
My wife
was already one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
We agreed that she should find someone
who would teach me about the Bible.
A sister came
and started telling me about the good news
of God’s Kingdom.
But things turned sour when she said
that this Kingdom of God
will crush all these other kingdoms,
including my political organization.
I was furious as I was talking to her,
but I saw that she was just smiling
—not shouting, not even retaliating.
I was surprised.
It touched my heart.
They invited me to the Kingdom Hall.
What really got my attention
was that everywhere I looked,
everyone in the hall was participating.
Little children were raising their hands
and giving their answers freely.
You could see they were well-prepared
and stayed on the topic.
Each and every one of them
found scriptures quickly.
I was a university student,
but I was unable to find the scriptures.
That made me think,
‘Hey, I want to be the same as them.’
I noticed that the kind of education
that they were receiving
in Jehovah’s organization
was of a high standard
compared to what we received
under apartheid,
which was of a very low standard.
From my experience,
it is clear that trusting in people
is ‘chasing the wind,’
but putting trust in Jehovah God
brings people happiness.
Since I was young,
I just wanted to find freedom,
find peace,
and become a happy person.
But I could not find it
until I came into the Kingdom Hall.
That is where I found real freedom,
I found real justice, I had real happiness,
and I was shown what real love is.
My life has changed tremendously.
I have a close relationship with Jehovah.
That relationship
caused me to become a loving person
—a person who is empathetic,
someone who strives hard to be humble,
someone who lives with people in peace.
I ‘clothed myself completely
with the new personality.’
Moses yearned for two things
—justice and unity—
and learned that God’s Kingdom
offers the true solution.
God’s Word also contains principles
that foster peace
in our personal relationships,
starting at home.
In the following dramatization,
note how regular Bible reading
promotes peace within marriage.
In a marriage, not applying Bible principles
can lead to a lack of peace.
As time passes,
the differences in opinion
and personality that arise
can undermine the peace you once had.
How can that peace so longed for be regained?
Isaiah 26:3 says:
“You will safeguard
those who fully lean on you;
“you will give them continuous peace,
because it is in you that they trust.”
Only Jehovah can give continuous peace
to those who fully lean on him.
Abraham and Sarah, for example,
had that peace
because, even during big life changes
and difficult situations,
they faithfully followed Jehovah’s direction.
We can demonstrate our trust in Jehovah
by searching out his advice in his Word,
the Bible.
Turning Bible reading
into a habit can seem daunting,
but it’s worth the effort.
Take advantage of every opportunity.
See where you can make adjustments
in your routine.
The advice found in the Bible
can lead to peace in your marriage.
For example, Matthew 7:12 says:
“All things, therefore,
“that you want men to do to you,
you also must do to them.”
But after reading,
don’t forget the most important step;
apply what you learn.
When a husband puts his wife’s interests
ahead of his own,
she feels loved and valued
and vice versa.
Another Bible principle
found at Matthew 5:5 says:
“Happy are the mild-tempered.”
By controlling our temper,
we create an environment
that is relaxed and peaceful.
And while all are encouraged
to read the Bible as individuals,
if circumstances allow,
consider doing so as a couple.
Talk about what you learned.
Take advantage of the available study tools
to learn all you can
about Jehovah’s marvelous qualities.
Without a doubt,
this will draw you closer to Jehovah
and will strengthen
the “threefold cord” in your marriage.
And even when life takes a turn
and things get hard,
you will still be able to feel
the continuous peace
that only Jehovah,
the Originator of marriage, can provide.
If it’s convenient to talk privately
with your spouse,
why not pause this video
and discuss these three questions?
The dramatization
was both realistic and encouraging.
When husbands and wives
read the Bible regularly,
together and on their own,
and apply what they learn,
they bring continuous peace
into the home.
The Bible not only provides
timeless principles
but also examples of real people
whose lives we can learn from.
One of these is Job,
who teaches us
timeless lessons about integrity.
That’s the focus of this morning worship,
presented by Brother Robert Ciranko.
Did you know that in the Bible
Jehovah accredits just two of his worshippers
as having integrity
—David and Job?
Regarding David, at 1 Kings 9:4,
Jehovah told Solomon:
“Walk before me as your father David walked,
with integrity of heart.”
And twice when speaking to Satan,
Jehovah said of Job:
“There is no one like him on the earth.
He is an upright man of integrity.”
Of course,
the Bible is filled with other examples
of men and women who had similar reputations.
We can think of Abraham,
Daniel and his three companions,
and all the ones that Paul listed
in Hebrews chapter 11.
Those are just a few.
And, of course,
the finest example of all is Jesus Christ.
Clearly, Jehovah takes note of, values,
and loves people with integrity,
which is a quality
that every faithful servant of God needs.
But exactly what is that quality?
Well, integrity is moral soundness,
an unswerving devotion to righteousness.
Having integrity means
having strong ethical and moral principles
and following those principles at all times.
We can say
that such people do the right thing,
even when that is not easy
and no one is watching.
In fact, integrity is most evident
when a person’s devotion is under test
and he is pressured to abandon
the right course.
Now, how does a person develop integrity?
Well, it all starts
with defining one’s core values,
that is, the values
that no matter what the consequences,
we are not going to compromise them.
And in this, Job is an excellent example.
What were his core values?
Well, we don’t have to wonder.
Turn to Job 1:1.
It says: “There was a man in the land of Uz
whose name was Job.
“He was an upright man of integrity;
he feared God and shunned what was bad.”
Those were Job’s core values.
He had a reverent, deep respect for Jehovah
and a wholesome dread of disobeying him.
And that was right in line
with what Solomon wrote
hundreds of years later
at Ecclesiastes 12:13.
If you’d like to look at that.
Ecclesiastes 12:13:
“The conclusion of the matter,
everything having been heard, is:
“Fear the true God
and keep his commandments,
for this is the whole obligation of man,”
or as the modern paraphrase puts it:
“Fear God.
Do what he tells you.”
In the text comments for today,
The Watchtower  states:
“For servants of Jehovah,
the key to integrity is love” for God.
And it adds that along with that
must be “our loyal devotion to him
as our heavenly Father.”
Humans show integrity when they
are so completely devoted to God
that they continue to do his will
when facing hardship.
Why, even in his worst moment,
Job refused to turn against God.
And that is why he said:
“Until I die,
I will not renounce my integrity!”
Each of us has the responsibility
and the privilege, just like Job,
to demonstrate
that we serve and obey Jehovah
because we love him.
Interestingly, in Job chapter 31,
Job lists about a dozen real-life examples
that if they had been true of him
would have exposed
a lack of integrity on his part.
Let’s look at just a few of these,
and in doing so,
it can help us to see
what we can do to keep our integrity.
Starting with verse 9 of Job chapter 31,
he said,
“if my heart has been enticed by a woman.”
In verse 11, he said:
“That would be shameful conduct,
an error deserving judgment by the judges.”
Now, we know Job kept himself clean
from immorality,
because in verse 1 of that same chapter,
he said he
had “made a covenant with his eyes”
not to “show improper attention”
to another woman.
So he not only avoided committing adultery,
but he had not even taken
the first step toward that sin
by looking lustfully at other women.
So people of integrity
uphold Jehovah’s standard of morality
and the sanctity of marriage.
Another example is in verse 16, he said,
“if I refused to give the poor
what they desired.”
And in verse 17, he included the need
to share his food “with the orphans.”
Well, we know Job was generous
to the poor and needy,
because at Job 29:12,
he said he “would rescue the poor . . . ,
the fatherless child
and anyone who had no helper.”
So people of integrity value others
and help those who are in need,
and they look after orphans and widows.
Another example is in verse 24.
He said, “if I put my confidence in gold.”
Job was wealthy at the start,
but he was not greedily materialistic.
And when he lost all his wealth,
he accepted the fact that, as he said:
‘Naked he came out of his mother’s womb
and naked he would return.’
So people of integrity
do not put their trust in material things;
they put the Kingdom first in their life.
One more example is in verse 33.
He said: “Have I ever tried
to cover over my transgressions?”
At Job 13:23,
Job asked for his sins and transgressions
to be revealed.
And in the end, he accepted reproof
for his being too quick
to declare himself righteous.
And after Elihu and Jehovah
both chastened Job,
he repented in dust and ashes.
So people of integrity
are quick to own up to their own mistakes
and accept correction.
Surely Job was a model of integrity.
Did you know that he requested
that a written record be made
of his suffering and endurance?
He did.
If you turn to Job chapter 19
—Job 19—
starting with verse 23,
he said:
“If only my words were written down,
“if only they could be inscribed in a book!
“O that they were carved forever in the rock,
with an iron stylus and lead!”
How thankful we are that Jehovah agreed
to make a permanent record
of Job’s integrity-keeping course
and that he put it in the Bible
and did not have it chiseled on some rock
in the middle of Arabia where Job lived!
Can you sum up the story
of Job in one sentence?
Well, one Bible commentary
does quite well by stating:
“The beauty of the book of Job
“is of a living, breathing soul
“encompassed by sorrows,
“surrounded by misunderstanding
“but unconquered, humbled,
and finally satisfied in God.”
Through Job’s life, we learned
that no matter what trials we may encounter,
having a close relationship with Jehovah
and staying true to our core values
will enable us to maintain our integrity
and that when we are tested,
God will support us just as he did Job.
Psalm 84:11 says:
“Jehovah will not hold back anything good
from those walking in integrity.”
When we show
our complete, wholehearted devotion to God
by obeying him
and doing what is right in his eyes
in our everyday lives,
even when facing hardships,
we will surely make Jehovah happy
and frustrate his enemy, Satan,
just as Job did so long ago.
Like Job, you young ones
have many opportunities
to show your devotion to God
through the choices you make.
Our new music video,
The Road to Life,
will strengthen your conviction
to stay close to Jehovah.
When you’re young,
it’s hard to find your way—
Decisions every day:
Who to be, what to love,
where to put your trust.
It’s not easy to find your place.
But I know how I feel,
That Jehovah is real.
He knows what I need.
I will succeed if I follow his lead.
With his Word, I know the way to go.
Jehovah’s with me all the way, I know.
So I will keep myself on this road to life.
There are paths my heart wants me to choose;
Jehovah sees that too.
So I pray ev’ry day to keep on the way,
And he helps me to see what is true.
And with the brotherhood,
I always feel so good.
’Cause with the love I’m shown,
I can be sure that I’m never alone.
With his Word, I know the way to go.
Jehovah’s with me all the way, I know.
So I will keep myself on this road to life.
I can’t look back
on where I could have been.
I’ll keep looking forward
to a life that never ends.
With his Word, I know the way to go.
Jehovah’s with me all the way, I know.
So I will keep myself on this road to life,
On the road to life.
We’ve enjoyed
a faith-strengthening program.
We learned how to find comfort
despite severe tests of faith,
how husbands and wives
gain continuous peace
by faithfully reading God’s Word,
how everyday conversations
may lead to Bible studies,
and how studying the Bible
can be life-changing, giving people hope.
Before we say goodbye,
it’s time for our postcard.
When you envision a paradise,
you may think of pristine beaches,
swaying palm trees, rain forests,
and coral reefs teeming with life.
You may picture Samoa.
The Samoan islands sparkle like gems
in the South Pacific Ocean.
The islands are divided into two parts:
Samoa and American Samoa.
Although separated
by only about 65 kilometers,
or about 40 miles,
they lie on either side
of the international date line,
creating a time difference of a full day.
This means that each year, one of the first
Memorial talks is given in Samoa
while one of the last
is held in American Samoa.
The coconut tree is abundant here.
Samoans call it “the tree of life”
because it can be used
for food, drink,
medicine, fuel, and shelter.
In 1940, Harold Gill
visited the Samoan islands to preach
but was promptly asked to leave.
In the five days
before the next boat sailed,
he distributed literature
far and wide by bicycle.
One booklet found its way
to Pele Fuaiupolu.
Twelve years later, in 1952,
after Pele met a brother
from England at work,
he and his wife, Ailua,
became the first Samoans to be baptized.
Today there are 12 congregations
with 606 publishers in Samoa.
Brothers at the remote translation office
on the island of Upolu
translate publications into Samoan.
Witnesses can be found preaching
in Apia, Samoa’s main port.
But most Samoans
live in rural coastal areas,
so our brothers witness in villages,
taro plantations,
and the remote island of Manono
reachable only by boat.
With no cars on Manono,
publishers walk the island
in search of interested ones.
When our brothers
get together for association,
they enjoy delicious foods,
including taro,
breadfruit, coconut milk, oka
—which is raw fish in coconut cream—
and their famous hot chocolate,
Koko Samoa.
On Sundays, families spend hours together
enjoying a feast of foods
cooked in a traditional umu,
an above-ground oven
made of volcanic rock.
They enjoy music, singing,
and traditional dancing
—the siva and fa’ataupati, or “slap dance.”
The Saleapaga Congregation
is on the island of Upolu.
Its territory includes beaches
and the To-Sua Ocean Trench,
a volcanic swimming hole
popular with tourists.
The 21 publishers
of the Saleapaga Congregation
send their warm love and greetings.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.